Through the Flex Factor competition first held at school then at a district level, our team created SporeStrike: an efficient and accurate drone to prevent devestating fungal infections.

20% of crops continue to be lost to fungal infections. The USDA reports this loses farmers $200 billion annually. More concerning than the financial loss, is that these crops could have fed 4 billion people, making the issue of fungal infections one of glad food insecurity. 
With USDA projecting farm sizes to grow, this issue is an immediate threat. This problem mainly occurs because farmers often spray fungicides across entire fields without any data driven inputs.
Our focus in this solution was on ensuring accuracy, efficiency, early detection, making the entire process highly data driven.

SporeStrike  is a drone based platform but, with two key innovations. An FHE Hyperspectral Signature Analyzer and an FHE Fungal Impedance Analyzer. 
The platform operates in two back to back passes over a farm.The Modeling  Pass maximizes efficiency. In this, the HIA component scans crops and stores spectral reflectance signatures in 8’x8’ geotiles. 

Typical wifi ranges do not span 400 acre farms, so after the spectral collections, SprokeStrike returns to a home base and connects to our proprietary Machine Learning engine which then analyzes the spectral signatures, identifying and marking the exact fungal infected geotiles. 

Southwest University of Engineering and Technology determined that hyperspectral imaging was up to 99% accurate in determining whether crops were infected. However, this does not yet allow for the classification of the exact fungal species  that’s where our Extermination pass comes in, This pass maximizes accuracy
SporeStrike now revisits only the specific geofences identified during the Modelling Pass and gathers fungal spores within those areas onto a microfluidic chip.

The FHE impedance analyzer then classifies the fungal phenotype, as each type of fungal spore has distinct electrical resistance characteristics. Finally, the appropriate fungicide is dispensed. 

The beauty of this system is that this targeted elimination approach has shown a 20% increase in crop yield, offering a myriad of benefits for all involved parties. We save farmers $63,000 feeding 176 million more people in the US, and ultimately turning a profit for our investors. 

Business Overview:

Our goal is to focus on serving farmers directly. To build trust and expand our reach, we'll work with the USDA, Farm Bureau Federations, and OEM manufacturers. These partnerships will give us direct access to America's 1.9 million farms. 

There are two key factors that set us apart from our competitors. We have unmatched efficiency with fungal genotype detection and highly targeted infection elimination, which alternatives like Croptix or PCR based solutions completely lack. 

For manufacturing, our partners are industry leaders allowing for flexible scalability as well as short lead times for product updates.

Other key partners include the NSF and colleges research and development, as well as agricultural organizations and the USDA for networking. 

Our multifaceted advertising approach will reach America’s farmers of tomorrow through agricultural conventions, social media and SEO, reputed farmers journals, and OEM channel partnerships. 



Dominic: Advertising  through financial breakdown 
[SLIDE]
Our materials cost totals to $5,000 and total item cost $10,000
[SLIDE]
Per unit, we plan to sell our SporeStrike solutions for $13,000. This one-time cost  is still cheaper than the $14,000 farmers currently spend on fungicides every year, saving them time and money. As we grow our business, we project a market share of 0.2% the first year, eventually growing to a share of 1.7% over 10 years and a profit of $74 million. 

Our mission, feed an additional 4 billion people, one farm and one drone at a time. 





